You have now heard a lot about how
to search for good hyperparameters.
Before wrapping up our discussion
on hyperparameter search,
I want to share with you just
a couple of final tips and tricks for
how to organize your
hyperparameter search process.
Deep learning today is applied to
many different application areas and
that intuitions about hyperparameter
settings from one application area may or
may not transfer to a different one.
There is a lot of cross-fertilization
among different applications' domains,
so for example, I've seen ideas developed
in the computer vision community,
such as Confonets or ResNets,
which we'll talk about in a later course,
successfully applied to speech.
I've seen ideas that were first developed
in speech successfully applied in NLP,
and so on.
So one nice development in deep learning
is that people from different application
domains do read increasingly research
papers from other application domains to
look for inspiration for
cross-fertilization.
In terms of your settings for
the hyperparameters, though,
I've seen that intuitions do get stale.
So even if you work on just one problem,
say logistics, you might have found a good
setting for the hyperparameters and
kept on developing your algorithm,
or maybe seen your data gradually change
over the course of several months,
or maybe just upgraded
servers in your data center.
And because of those changes,
the best setting of your
hyperparameters can get stale.
So I recommend maybe just retesting or
reevaluating your hyperparameters
at least once every several months
to make sure that you're still
happy with the values you have.
Finally, in terms of how
people go about searching for
hyperparameters, I see maybe two
major schools of thought, or
maybe two major different ways
in which people go about it.
One way is if you babysit one model.
And usually you do this if you have
maybe a huge data set but not a lot of
computational resources, not a lot of CPUs
and GPUs, so you can basically afford
to train only one model or
a very small number of models at a time.
In that case you might gradually babysit
that model even as it's training.
So, for example, on Day 0 you might
initialize your parameter as random and
then start training.
And you gradually watch your learning
curve, maybe the cost function J or
your dataset error or something else,
gradually decrease over the first day.
Then at the end of day one, you might say,
gee, looks it's learning quite well,
I'm going to try increasing the learning
rate a little bit and see how it does.
And then maybe it does better.
And then that's your Day 2 performance.
And after two days you say, okay,
it's still doing quite well.
Maybe I'll fill the momentum term a bit or
decrease the learning variable a bit now,
and then you're now into Day 3.
And every day you kind of look at it and
try nudging up and down your parameters.
And maybe on one day you found
your learning rate was too big.
So you might go back to the previous
day's model, and so on.
But you're kind of babysitting the model
one day at a time even as it's training
over a course of many days or over
the course of several different weeks.
So that's one approach, and
people that babysit one model,
that is watching performance and patiently
nudging the learning rate up or down.
But that's usually what happens if
you don't have enough computational
capacity to train a lot of
models at the same time.
The other approach would be if you
train many models in parallel.
So you might have some setting
of the hyperparameters and
just let it run by itself ,either for
a day or even for multiple days,
and then you get some
learning curve like that; and
this could be a plot of the cost function
J or cost of your training error or
cost of your dataset error, but
some metric in your tracking.
And then at the same time you might start
up a different model with a different
setting of the hyperparameters.
And so, your second model might
generate a different learning curve,
maybe one that looks like that.
I will say that one looks better.
And at the same time,
you might train a third model,
which might generate a learning curve that
looks like that, and another one that,
maybe this one diverges so
it looks like that, and so on.
Or you might train many
different models in parallel,
where these orange lines
are different models, right, and so
this way you can try a lot of
different hyperparameter settings and
then just maybe quickly at the end
pick the one that works best.
Looks like in this example it was,
maybe this curve that look best.
So to make an analogy,
I'm going to call the approach
on the left the panda approach.
When pandas have children,
they have very few children,
usually one child at a time, and
then they really put a lot of effort into
making sure that the baby panda survives.
So that's really babysitting.
One model or one baby panda.
Whereas the approach on the right
is more like what fish do.
I'm going to call this
the caviar strategy.
There's some fish that lay over 100
million eggs in one mating season.
But the way fish reproduce is
they lay a lot of eggs and
don't pay too much attention
to any one of them but
just see that hopefully one of them, or
maybe a bunch of them, will do well.
So I guess, this is really
the difference between how mammals
reproduce versus how fish and
a lot of reptiles reproduce.
But I'm going to call it the panda
approach versus the caviar approach,
since that's more fun and memorable.
So the way to choose between these
two approaches is really a function
of how much computational
resources you have.
If you have enough computers to
train a lot of models in parallel,
then by all means take
the caviar approach and
try a lot of different hyperparameters and
see what works.
But in some application domains, I see
this in some online advertising settings
as well as in some computer vision
applications, where there's just so
much data and
the models you want to train are so
big that it's difficult to train
a lot of models at the same time.
It's really application
dependent of course, but
I've seen those communities use
the panda approach a little bit more,
where you are kind of babying
a single model along and
nudging the parameters up and down and
trying to make this one model work.
Although, of course, even the panda
approach, having trained one model and
then seen it work or not work, maybe
in the second week or the third week,
maybe I should initialize a different
model and then baby that one along
just like even pandas, I guess, can have
multiple children in their lifetime,
even if they have only one, or a very
small number of children, at any one time.
So hopefully this gives you a good sense
of how to go about the hyperparameter
search process.
Now, it turns out that there's
one other technique that can
make your neural network much more
robust to the choice of hyperparameters.
It doesn't work for all neural networks,
but when it does, it can
make the hyperparameter search much easier
and also make training go much faster.
Let's talk about this
technique in the next video.